Welcome everyone to the solution for Interview Question number two in the product design and metrics
category.
So this is the one where we're describing different aspects of the same situation where Google has released
a new version of their search algorithm.
They did some AB testing and during that testing the engineers realized that the new algorithm was actually
incorrectly implemented and it was returning less relevant results which is not good.
Now two things were happening here.
People in the treatment group were performing more queries in the control group.
And also interestingly advertising revenue was higher in the treatment group as well.
Even though there were less relevant results.
So the first question was what may be the cause of people in the treatment group performing more searches
than the control group.
Now keep in mind lots of different possible answers here.
If you have a good interviewer This should be more of a conversation than just a one way dialogue or
one way monologue.
So here's what we do know.
We know the new algorithm is producing less relevant search results and if we kind of think about this
this means that users may have to make additional searches in order to clarify what they are searching
for.
Using the new algorithm in order to test this hypothesis will be could do a study how close searches
are to each other.
So if we notice that additional searchers are being done very soon after a previous search we could
classify them as clarifying searches.
So what I mean by that is let's say you were searching for Apple computers.
So you go to Google you search for Apple and it keeps giving you Apple the fruit.
So this is not the relevant result that you wanted.
In fact more people are probably searching for Apple computers than Apple to fruit.
So maybe you have to quickly clarify the search to Apple computer or Apple Mac books etc..
So what we can do to test this hypothesis is start measuring the time between queries into the search
engine and then we can actually get some sort of measurement are these clarifying searches are happening
happening immediately after the first search.
Or are people just querying more in general using this new algorithm.
So that's something really important to keep in mind here.
More queries does not mean that the new algorithm is better or worse it just means that it's different.
What we have to do is look at this analytically and the side is it better or worse given what we do
know and most likely since we do know that it's giving less relevant results.
It's likely that people are doing more queries and trying to clarify the results because the ones being
returned are in fact less relevant.
Okay thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.